It's running now.
Okay, thank you.
It's running.
I apologize.
So we were talking about your responsibilities here.
Yes, I'm responsible for general planning and coordination for the projects and also responsible for information systems.
Could you tell me, you also work with the
the computers and the digitization process, the scanning of text.
Could you tell me a little bit about your plans for computerizing and digitizing the system, the collections?
Yes, as you know, it's a big project.
We say now that it's about a 10-year project, starting from 1988.
was with the announcing by the president of the project of Tolbiak where we are but it's not only a building project it's also a lot of projects and among them is the information system and the planning of entire re-information
You know, the old library was already computerized.
And with the new project, we plan to move the NSAM system to a new integrated system.
And with this new integrated system, we intend to manage all library functions.
So the new information system is sorted into about 20 main sub-functions.
Part of them are front-office functions, I mean turned towards the public, and others are back-office functions made for professionals' purposes.
It's a long story.
We started this information project in 1991, and there were a lot of studies, but the real public bid
to realize the system was launched only in 1995.
Really?
And we are now preparing the realization of the system.
And because it's a very big integrated system, we cannot open the system, all the functions at the same day.
So we
organize the launching in three steps.
The first step is coming next year with the opening of the research library.
That is in this building?
Yes, in this building.
And the second step will be about six or seven months later with the main back office functions.
And we have a third step in the middle of 1999.
to organize the last functions.
But for the equipment, we also have had a public bid.
I forgot to say that realization is made by the first informatics service company in France whose name is Capgemini.
Gemini.
And Capgemini worked with IBM.
That was the realization of softwares, integration of softwares, and so on.
And for equipment, there was also an international public bid, and Boulle, also a French company, won this bill.
and Bull is associated with a lot of companies.
I may quote Sequent for servers.
It was an American company and also Oracle for the database system or Microsoft for some of the softwares.
We work
in three levels architecture, client-server architecture, with main servers, about 14 main servers, 47 inter-servers, and about 3,000 workstations running with Windows NT.
Since this is our first visit to this building, will this building here primarily be
devoted to computer service, or will there be reading here, books here?
Yes.
It's, your schedule is, it's, you, maybe it, it would be more
easy to you to begin by because maybe it's necessary to explain before we are going to discuss about the information system on the project itself.
The library is one of the biggest libraries in the world and now
the public may access to the collection in two main sites, one in the old library near the Royal Palace in the Richelieu Street, and the other, this new building, is open to the public since December 1996.
And the idea is to move here all the printed books collections and all the audiovisual collections.
And the other collections remaining in the old site will be the stamps, music, engravings, maps, and so on.
All that we call special collections.
So the first idea is that one.
This is a unique library with two main sites, one dedicated to special collections and the others in where we are.
is the building dedicated to printed material and audiovisual.
And another idea is to offer to general public some books and audiovisual on information.
So the building is split in two levels.
One level for general public and the other for research.
All four buildings are split into two levels?
If you see the building from here.
Oh, it's all one building.
Oh, I see.
Okay.
Oh, we didn't see that.
You have the four towers, but the towers are only for professional purposes.
In the upper levels, you have storage levels.
And in the seven first levels, you have offices.
The library itself for the public is in this rectangular shape, the garden in the middle, and in the view of the garden you have the first level, you may see it very clearly from here.
The first level is for the general public with open stacks collections, and then
beneath, you have the research level.
And the level we opened in December was the general public, with the exhibition rooms, auditoriums, reading rooms, 10 reading rooms.
And we are going to open the research level at about mid-1998, but now it's not really open.
And we are now in a project phase.
I mean, we are preparing the removal of printed material coming from the old library, ten millions of books, to coming to this library.
Ten millions?
Ten millions, yes.
And are they in the process of coming out here now?
Yes, yes.
Do you know the rate at which they're coming, by chance?
You may ask a lot of questions to my colleague Jacqueline Sanson, who is responsible for this part of the project.
So when I explained that we are planning to open the new information system with the research level, it's a sense.
It means that it comes with the opening of this level.
So this is a general idea.
When you say open to the public, are these books that they can borrow?
Are these for circulation, so they all must be read on premises?
Yes, only on the premises.
And there's a big difference between the first level and the second.
In the general public, books are acquired from the bookshops and so on.
And this is not, there are not,
as we say, patrimonial collections.
It's not the old collection, it's not a collection coming by the legal deposit and so on.
It's a collection we bought for the public.
General circulation kinds of things, but not to be circulated outside the building.
Yes.
It looks very different here from our view coming in.
Yes, because
Yeah, this project is included in the vast urbanism project.
All the quarter here coming from the highway lane on the east side to one of the big railway stations of Paris.
All this quarter is now in change.
Rehabilitation.
Yes, rehabilitation.
And this will become
a large place in Paris.
And this place has organized the circulation between the quarters of Paris.
And in next year, maybe two, three or four years, we should have a bridge for pedestrians coming from the south side of the Seine River and the north side.
I think the president of France wanted this to be the anchor, so to speak, of the whole redevelopment of this part of Paris.
Yes, it was the first building to be built, and François Mitterrand clearly wanted to have not only a building, but also the first step of the new quarter of Paris.
And that's the explanation of the huge place.
It's not only the place for the library, it's a place for everybody.
Now it's a new quarter, so it's just coming.
Public transportation is coming, but we shall have next year a new subway station very close from here.
So where did the subway come now?
We have a subway station on that side.
We have two bus stations.
uh the main subway station will be open in uh over next year in 1998 so it's really one building of from this from the road it looks like four buildings yes but it's only one it's one building yes it's about uh 350 000 square meters 350 000 yes so
Are any books stored?
Will books be stored in these four towers?
Yes.
There are already books stored in the towers because we had another storage in Versailles, in the suburbs of Paris, and in this storage we had the periodicals, official publications, and these collections are coming from Versailles to Tolbiac.
And this removal is almost finished.
I see.
And the storage is split between the lower part of the library and the higher part.
About half of the collection will be stored in this part and the other half in the towers.
Of course, probably you're not the person to ask this question, but access to materials, if you're a reader,
requesting material, and it's on the top four.
Yes.
We expect to have a process taking about 20 minutes, starting from the request of the reader to the receiving of the book, because it's the reason why.
Merci beaucoup.
Hello.
Merci.
Ça va, Laura?
Ça va.
I believe that you had some brochures
booklets in English to introduce to the library, because if you need to write a book... Yes, I don't have them yet, but I hope... It's difficult to talk about this.
I am writing something about the library, but it's not finished now.
You are?
Yes.
I was asked to...
to write a chapter in a book to be published in the United States.
Really?
Yes, on modern libraries.
On modern libraries?
Yes.
In general?
I have the title in the file, but it's somebody in the University of Hawaii who asked me that.
University of which, I'm sorry?
Hawaii.
Oh, Hawaii.
Yeah, funny.
Do you have a title for your book?
Yes, I may, if you'll give me your card, I may send you... Excellent.
That's a great interest for... Yes, because it's a, you know, it's very complicated business, and it's very difficult to...
to explain everything in a few hours, or to understand everything in a few hours.
As I say, before it's a ten years project, and in this ten years project you have a lot of things coming from building, architecture, information system, with recognition of catalogs and so on, a lot of things, digitization and so on.
A central concern of mine in this new book that I'm writing is the whole concept of the future library and how the computerization and the digitized book will all work into this concept of books as a part of book culture.
You mentioned the word patrimony here in France.
This is very important.
Yes.
You are in a national library.
It's a very important thing to have the main concept of the library.
Mitterrand changed the concept of the National Library because when he launched this project, he asked this project to be open to the general public.
He asked to be, this library will be an encyclopedic library.
And the National Library was an encyclopedic library before, but since about the end of the First World War, the library moved to more humanities, arts and so on.
She received the legal deposits, but for acquisitions.
Acquisitions were more oriented to humanities, liberal arts and so on.
And Mitterrand asked the library to move again to encyclopedic orientations.
that we must use new technology and open to the world, and mainly Europe.
So it's not an entire new definition, but it's something like a new start for the National Library.
We don't move the main missions, I mean, to work for research more than for the general public.
to collect old publications in French or published in France, or to publish national bibliography to promote French culture and so on.
But we enlarge the current definition of the old national library.
So that's important to understand.
We are not a large university library or a large public library.
We are, first, a national library.
It means that we are a library dedicated to study more than to the entertainment.
And that explains to you that we
are open to the general public, the level, the first level, we call the upper level of Ujjada, because it's high comparison of the garden.
But this level, it's open to the general public for study.
It's not a public or ordinary public library like a city library and so on.
It's not for children.
So do you have to get a reader's card?
Yes, everybody has to get a reader's card, either for one day or for another.
And we charge people.
It's not free.
We charge 20 francs a day or 200 francs a year.
And if we are a student, if you are a student, you may pay half price.
What you hope is that the materials that the people use, they can find it elsewhere.
That you hope that they come here for things that they can't find elsewhere.
Yes, that's true for the research level.
So we have here all publications come from the early story of France.
So the Royal Library comes from the maybe 14th century.
with manuscripts and so on.
And then from the 16th century, we have the legal deposit, who was created by Francois I in 1537.
And so we have mainly whole books printed in France, since the origins to nowadays.
And this is very
So the idea is to keep these books in good health for generations.
So we cannot afford to communicate, to circulate these books a lot.
So it's mainly for searchers.
And if people ask for a copy, microfilm, and so on, we may do it for them.
You mentioned part of your mission is to keep books in good health for generations.
I would assume that part of your responsibility is to select books that might be in declining health and perhaps to prevent further use of these books to make digital copies of them.
Yes, it's part of my business.
The idea of digitization is more to communicate books and to preserve them.
The best method to preserve books is, until today, photography, microfilm.
It's a sure way to preserve books for maybe centuries.
We use digitization
Only for a small part of the collection.
Coming with the project was the idea to create a new digital library.
The target was about 100 books and 300,000.
Just 100 books?
100,000.
Okay.
Pardon me.
100,000 books, and 300,000 pictures.
So we almost finished the printed book program, and with Mr. Menin, we'll explain to you what kind of titles we choose and what were the reasons.
Our purpose is more to choose the technical way of digitize and to communicate.
So the idea is to offer to the public in a workstation dedicated to digitize collections.
It's like a PC computer and you may browse
in the digital library with special softwares.
And that is here on those lower levels?
It's coming from next year with the first type of the information system.
I may show you because I have samples of screens, but I cannot leave you today that kind of material.
I'm going to publish an article about that.
Oh, my goodness.
With the samples of the screens of the future systems.
But they are not available today.
It's part-to-type.
You mean the machines are available?
Yes.
So I may show you some examples.
This is an example of the homepage of his workstation to access to men's services.
This is in French.
And this is an example of another... We have about three kinds of workstations.
This will be a workstation for general public in a lot of places in the library.
It's only to inform general information.
So with the touch screen, you may choose library presentation, introduction to the library, map of the library, brief introduction to collections, exhibitions, auditoriums,
Projects and services are here, practical information, how to go to the... what are the subway stations on.
And here you have the way to reserve your seat and to reserve a book for a special date.
I see.
Are these the names of the buildings?
Yes, it's a name.
It's a time tower.
Letters, towers, laws, and numbers.
So this is one, two, three, four.
It's time.
Time is one.
Laws is two.
Numbers is three.
And letters is four.
What is it?
What does that say?
Laws.
Laws, okay.
Yes.
Laws.
As you see, for this general information, the public may choose a language, so you may choose English if you are English speaking.
Yes, and you may choose German, Italian, Spanish, French.
This will be another kind of workstation.
It's not a touch screen, it's a
You can use it with a keyboard or with a trackball, with a mouse.
And this is a workstation used to access the catalog or to request a document or to illustrate or to ask a book for a special day.
But we were talking about...
I'm coming from a meeting in Bern, and this is my slide.
As you say, you see the information system is very, we are, it's not finished,
It's a concept of a multimedia workstation.
These are transparencies that you showed, I guess, in a lecture.
How many monitors will you have, Julie?
Do you have an idea of how many workstations you will have?
Yes.
I quoted the number before.
We shall have about 3,000.
About 60% for professional purposes and 40% for public.
This is a sample of workstation
used to access to the digital library.
As you see, it's running with several windows.
And here you have the main text you ask.
It's the letters on education from Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
And you may browse in the library by asking
titles by browsing the catalogue, and then you may browse in the book.
You have here what we call thumbnails, if you know, it's a technical word.
In French it's the railway.
The railway.
And here you see
the coming pages in the book.
Oh, I see, sure.
But you may ask the contents by double-click on that button, and you may ask the bibliographic description to go forward before.
You may enlarge some details if you have written manuscripts, annotations.
You may...
turn the book by using this kind of button.
If you have to read in a manuscript annotation.
Because when it's microfilm you have to turn the whole thing.
These are the upcoming pages and then probably the one previous page.
And here you may add some signs.
You may highlight.
You may select lines and
you may move these words in your personal file.
So we can make a copy of this here.
Can you make a hard copy of this?
Yes.
And your visitors will be able to do that?
But we feel that we have to organize some training because it's not even if it's
rather easy.
You don't learn this kind of software in school or with TV.
So you must have to learn to use easily this kind of software.
And to demonstrate a proficiency with the equipment.
And here you have the time running because we give the workstation to people, but not for every day, for all the day.
Even today, when they want to have audio-visual material, they must give their name and we give them the workstation for two hours or three hours.
And so it's to avoid that people keep the workstation for themselves and avoid to...
to think to other people who need the workstation.
But you don't have to read it here.
You can locate what you want, copy it to your own file, and then read it later.
The point here is to find the material.
If you know about digitization, you know that we have two modes, two ways of digitizing.
One way is graphic mode.
It means that we
we have photography of the book, we made photography of the book, and that we digitize by page.
Another mode is to digitize by words.
This example, it's a Molière Donjement, and this is digitized with text mode.
So, in text mode, you may
make a query by words.
You may query about love in Molien, Don Juan, and see how many times in Don Juan love is used.
And you may find that in the three first acts the word love is used, and no more in the fourth and the fifth.
So that's a meaning for futures.
Of course.
Or if you're looking for a specific scene, when you remember it by a certain word, you just search for that word and it will go there.
Now this, this is a, you have to scan this to get the, and so to do that, do you have to break the book up?
Do you have to take out the pages?
Do you have to disbound the book?
to scan to get a true copy?
If you want a hard copy of the page, you just have to click a button.
I mean when you're scanning the original book, you have to take apart and do each individual page to scan it into the system.
Is that right?
Yes.
Generally, we used...
Photography to... Microfilm?
Did you take these?
Yes.
Microfilm, yes.
About 60% of our digitized library comes from microphones.
Oh, that's very interesting.
And the others, the process?
The others were original books, which came from originals.
And this part is another way of digitizing.
It means that we, it's companies, they don't scan a page.
They type it in.
Keyboard it in.
Yes, all the words.
Yeah, that's for content, and this is a graphic representation.
So this is the cheaper way of digitizing.
This is expensive.
Because of the labor?
Because of the labor, yes.
And this takes less time.
And when you want to make query by words, it's possible to use special software.
It's what we call OCR.
It's optical recognition character.
And with these softwares, you may have this kind of results.
But with sometimes mistakes, because as you see here, it's an old book.
So modern machines cannot recognize very well the old characters, and they make mistakes.
So you have to correct these mistakes.
It's not a problem if you run this software only on one book.
But on 100,000, it will be very expensive.
And have you done 100,000?
We have done 86,000.
Wow.
And who made this selection?
It's the Mustermanian team.
OK.
Yeah.
So you must ask him, well, the criteria of the selection.
Very important.
Do you have a question?
No, I just think it's very interesting what you get in the microfilm.
That's a great idea.
I'm not seeing this.
In American institutions, they're not doing that much digitization from the original microfilm.
They're going to books and taking them apart.
I believe that in some libraries in America they use the same way of digitizing.
It makes perfect sense.
It makes sense also from an historical viewpoint because in the old books you have a lot of science.
The book presentation has a meaning
It's only a chain of words.
Absolutely.
Okay?
So when you digitize this way, you never have the original presentation of the book.
You just have the text.
It's very important, but it's not the whole book.
You try to give a sense of it here, but it doesn't do it.
You don't have a feeling for the size, the binding, the kind of paper.
We don't have that.
And this is strictly black and white, so if there are any color illustrations there, you're not going to get that either, right?
Yes, it's black and white.
Early you said something very interesting.
You said you know microfilm, but you don't know the future of digitization.
Yes, we don't.
Could you talk about it?
Oh, it's quite simple.
It's if you think to sound recording.
And you see the story of sound recording.
You see that people are able to record sound from most of the century.
But we change very often the way of record sounds.
And if you want to hear one old recording, you must have to move the old record
the new compact disc or anything.
So it's the same problem with digitization.
The techniques are every year moving.
So we cannot pretend, we cannot say today that we are sure that the technical support we use to record digitized documents
will be the same in 10 years.
We cannot pretend that the machine used to read these digitized records will be the same in 10 years.
And we cannot absolutely pretend that this kind of records will be used in 25 or 30 years.
Yes, and there is another problem.
digitized bits are sometimes disappearing.
It's a question of signal.
You know, digitized things is something like that.
It's binary code.
And with time, on some support, it becomes like that.
When we stored the first digitized record and DAT tapes, it was very good support for material for one, two, three years.
But to keep the digital material clear, we are obliged to move from DAT tape to
optical disk.
But the way to read this disk is not, we are not sure that it will be the same in five years.
So if you want to be sure to read information coming from computers, you are almost obliged to keep samples of machines
okay let's see it's not it's no more library it's a museum of technical so that's a very cool oh that's fascinating yeah is does this concern you though um in some instances in the united states there there are examples of where they are making digitized copies of some materials and then deaccessioning getting rid of
the printed material.
They don't have a printed backup.
Does that concern you?
No, not here.
I mean not here, but does that philosophy concern you?
Would that concern you?
No, we don't.
In conservation, the choice of the National Library is to keep the book or periodical or records
sound records, and to keep also copies, but we keep photographic copies.
We don't choose today.
We don't choose the digitized copies.
Digitized copies is for the public.
It's for communication.
It's not for conservation.
It's not archival in your view.
It's not archival today.
Maybe in
The year's coming, I don't know.
But today it's not.
We can't trust the digitized methods to conserve or to preserve material.
It's not true only for libraries, but it's true for banks or insurance companies and military purposes and so on.
I was told that in some private companies,
people sought to preserve their data on digitized documents.
But they are changing their mind because they see that, they saw that it's not sure.
It's sure for five, ten years, five, six years, but it's not sure.
And there is two problems.
It's to keep the signal.
And the other problem is to keep the machine able to read its free access.
And it's technical problems.
But the way to read, you have the angle of, you know that it's a laser with the digital.
And the angle of laser is not the same in every machine.
the speed of rotation of the compact disc is not the same, and so on.
So it means that there is not a standard way of reading digitized, my say.
There is a lot of ways, and industry is working about standards, and it's a big interest.
But we feel that we are now in...
years of creating new techniques.
And this movement is not fixed, it's not seizing.
We have inventions, new machines, new technology coming every year, every six months.
So you cannot trust this technology moving every time to preserve something.
To preserve something, you need something permanent, like book or like photography.
See, we know how long paper lasts.
It lasts a long time.
We know, yes.
We know very, very well.
It was very well studied.
We know that all paper made from textile is a very good document,
The old wood of the 15th century are in very good state.
Paper was manufactured from the 19th century from wood, and then it became something less durable.
We call it pulp.
Yes, and we have this problem like in American libraries.
And we create some machines specialized to keep out the acid from pulp paper.
But we trust in Argentine photography.
It seems to last at least one century.
I'm sorry, microfilm?
Microfilm, yes.
That little illustration that you drew with the wavy line, what do you call that condition where some of the digitized data tends to disappear?
Do you have a name for that?
In French, but I am not sure of my English.
Well, can you tell me the French word?
It's a signal.
Could you write it down?
Or maybe you could let me have that piece of paper, too, if you don't mind.
It's a signal.
It means when you have a sound or a light, it's a wave.
And in digitally...
documents, you have so one or zero.
One, zero.
So if you look at very carefully digital signals, it's that shape.
But with time coming, it's disappearing.
So in the chain, as you know, there is no meaning under seven
bits okay so when you are hearing a record you know that in your compact discs they are made of this kind of digits if there is one was lacking there is no problem because human reconstruct
the lacking signal.
But when we are talking of very complicated business, I mean images or informations, it's not the same.
So the new laser readers are able to reconstruct something with lacking.
But not with any information, if you understand.
I see.
And you don't know what's causing the bits of information to disappear.
Yes, we know.
It's coming from the plastic or anything.
It's only a matter of material.
We have now an industry company building some...
optical disk named century disk.
And these century disks are able to last a century because they are with components very stable.
I don't know the word in English, very permanent, stable, permanent.
And the end of the disk, there is no plastic, there is only glass.
And I know that the Library of Congress is looking at this kind of compact disk to keep a part of this digitized material.
I think to the American Memory Program.
And we are also looking at this kind.
But this is the problem of the signal.
you keep the machine problem.
If you keep your data on this sensory disk, you have to keep a machine and to maintain that machine and to have industry able to give you pieces and so on.
When you go back and you look at how much computerized information was stored on perforated cards,
And now nobody has the machine to read the cards, so that's useless information.
Right, right.
It's the same situation.
Yes, but most of companies don't need to keep a long time their data.
In business, you don't have to keep your data for a long, long, long time.
But in some companies, insurance...
Everything was dealing with atomic energy, because as you know, radiation lasts for centuries.
You must have to keep your letters.
And these people must choose very carefully the way of conservation.
Very, very interesting.
So when do you believe that the book you're writing will be completed?
My book, I wrote the chapter in French.
I have some corrections to give, but I sent the chapter in French to my American colleague, and...
I shall receive the English version about in August.
I may send you a... What I'd like to do is I'd like to send you a copy of my book.
Maybe we can make a... When are you going to write it?
Now?
I'm starting the writing now, and I will be submitting...
the manuscript about a year from now, and we hope to have the book published in 1999.
I may ask that you have written some articles in English with digitization, and this will be in English and more comfortable for you, because it has a lot of technical details, and I'm not able to use the right word
at the right time.
Yes, thank you.
This is absolutely wonderful.
You know, we're writing really, this book is dealing with libraries through history, but also libraries of the future.
And when you were talking about how President Mitterrand wanted not only a great repository for the patrimony of France, but a symbol.
I mean, this building makes a statement, doesn't it?
It's more than a repository of knowledge.
It makes a statement.
Yes, yes, yes.
And I think you were suggesting that earlier.
Yes, yes.
And in my chapter, you will have the statement of the president.
I must have that.
Okay.
Do you have email, by the way?
Yes, you have the email on the microphone.
Do you like to use email, by the way?
Yes, I like it.
I do, too, yes.
It's efficient.
It's very efficient to send files.
Not only to send a word, to say something, but to send files.
When I published the article, it was in Japan.
So I signed my paper by mail.
It took only five or ten seconds to mail it.
This is remarkable.
And if you don't mind, do you have a phone number, or is it on the card, too?
Yes, it's on the card.
Do you mind my calling you at some point?
Yes, you may.
What I'll do is contact you by email.
Yes.
And this is an introductory trip for us.
I think the most interesting for you is to see something.
The most thing you can see is the most useful.
I agree.
And then you may arrange or have more explanations by mail or by exchanging publications.
And I think perhaps a return visit, too.
Yes.
You are welcome.
Did you have any yet?
You explained everything.
Everything?
Excellent.
Perfect.
Very good.
You have concerns about, I sense a concern in your part that you're not really fully secure in your mind about the digital future, so to speak.
I mean, you have reservations.
You seem to be a very cautious man in proceeding.
I am a librarian.
I'm not a curator.
That's the reason why my... We didn't say that.
That's very important to me.
Could you give me briefly... I'll just turn this on the other side.